# Linktree Clone

### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/7IjX0e40jE0
### Description: Linktree Clone is a responsible web application where users create an account and edit their profiles adding useful links and social networks that they want to share with public. The project was made using Flask (and a few derived libraries), SQLite, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap (all technologies that I see in the course). I choose this idea because i can use a lot of my knowledge acquired through the course and its usability. 

## Structure

`app.py` is the entrypoint, it contains all route functions, database models and center imports from others libraries. The understanding of how the application works can be obtained by reading it. Database models are just python classes that Flask-SQLAlchemy understand and reflects on the database using migrations. SQLite was a great choice, it has all the necessary column types and simplicity requested by application, and works fine with Flask-SQLAlchemy. The main database entities are User, Links and Social Networks, being necessary an association table to link User and Social Networks (many-to-many relationship). I encountered a few problems working with migrations, but in the end it works.

`utils.py` has `login_required()`, a decorator that verify user session and protect routes.

`templates/*` has all the pages and are provided by routes using jinja and data recovered from database.

`static/*` has general and pages specific CSS files

`migrations/*` contains data generated by Flask-Migrate, using `flask db migrate`

`flask_session` contains users sessions

## Routes
A few routes ensure the functionality of Linktree Clone.

- /: If logged go to /<your_user_id>, if not, go to /login.
- /login: render `login.html` page, where user login an existing account.
- /register: render `template.html`, where user login an existing account.
- /<user_id>: renders <user_id> profile.
- /logout: If the user wants to log out.

## Pages

- login page
- register page
- edit page
- profile page (user)

## How to run

I recommend create a virtual environment, take a look at https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html

- Install all dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Run app using `flask run`or `flask run --host=0.0.0.0` (see https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/quickstart/)

## How to use

1. Create an account
2. Adding links and/or social networks
3. Share your profile and see others profiles
4. When you are done, logout from application
